NOTE:
Use the bullet points for the introduction and the pararaph for the abstract.

Introduction:
The Double Pendulum
-System: Chaotic
-Goal: To find pairs of starting angles for the first and second pendulums
that let M2 come to rest at the pivot while M1 stops in a relatively vertical
line above the pivot
-Technique: Used conservation of energy for all calculations,
including what to sweep
-Length ratio of pendulum 1 to pendulum 2: 1:1
-Mass ratio of pendulum 1 to pendulum 2: 1:1

Introduction: The Double Pendulum System
The double pendulum is a chaotic system. This means that it is extremely
sensitive to the initial conditions, and any deviation from perfect initial
conditions will quickly compound into more and more mathematical error as
more time passes in the system. Our goal in modeling this system was to find
the perfect initial angle conditions that, when paired with initial velocity
conditions of 0, resulted in a vertically still resting period. We held the
ratio of pendulum lengths and mass lengths constant at 1:1, meaning that the
length of the first pendulum is equal to the length of the second and the mass
of the first pendulum is equal to the mass of the second. Because we assumed the
initial values of the velocities, and the lengths and masses are constant, the
only parameters we tweaked were the initial angles of the two pendulums. We used
the law of conservation of energy to calculate the angle of the second pendulum
such that the total change in energy is equal to 0.


Abstract:
-Double pendulum system with a 1:1 mass ratio and 1:1 length ratio
-Find angle pair that allows for rest in a vertical position
-Best angle pair found was theta1 = 92.25, theta2 = 157.1455
-Falls after some time due to chaotic error buildup in math

Abstract: The Double Pendulum Model
We modeled the system with massless rods connecting the pendulums and the pivot,
and set the pendulums to be identical in terms of length and mass. The only
differences were the initial angles of the pendulums, which we swept to find the
best values. Our results showed that an initial angle of 92.25 for the first
pendulum and 157.1455 for the second pendulum produce our desired result. It is
not perfectly stable, since the mathematical error compounds upon itself, but it
stays at rest vertically for long enough to satisfy our goal. This error comes
from the fact that a chaotic system is very sensitive to initial parameters, and
even slightly imperfect ones will result in a buildup of error over time.
